[♪ "The Jerk" playing]
♪ Girls, hey, what's that you're doing ♪
Damn it!
♪ You got to show me the steps to it ♪
What? Pick it up.
♪ Somehow, gonna learn how to do it ♪
♪ Doing the Jerk ♪
[camera shutter clicks]
[grunts]
[car door closes]
[engine starts]
[tires squealing]
[crashes]
-Delivery, Morgan Gillory!
-[Elliot] Oh.
-A little help here, bud? Thank you.
-[Elliot] Yeah.
Uh, you got Mom flowers? That's so nice.
Oh, my gosh. Mom, Dad got you flowers!
-Um.
-[Morgan] What?
These are beautiful and super expensive.
What's this about?
Well, you are worth every penny
that was spent by someone else
who isn't me,
-I just ran into the delivery guy.
-[chuckles] Put 'em here.
Oh, Good. Ava cleaned up the breakfast
dishes just like she promised.
I also promised to change Chloe
and be ready to leave on time.
You only get two, tops.
-Ooh. Who are these from?
-I don't know. Is there a card?
Hmm.
"Morgan, thanks for a lovely adventure.
Until we meet again.
-Rhys."
-Rhys?
-Weird.
-Who's Rhys?
Just this guy I worked on a case with.
-And he's sending you dahlias?
-I guess so.
You know, I think that these flowers
could use a little water.
[Morgan] Thank you.
-Oh, wait, hang on. T-Turn it off.
-Oh. Oh. Oh.
Sorry, that just started last night.
The whole house is falling apart.
-I will take a look at it.
-[Morgan] Thank you.
Uh. Mom, I need a hair dryer.
Then get a hair dryer.
You know where they are.
[phone buzzes]
-Ava, do you know who this Rhys guy is?
-What? I don't know.
[Morgan] Okay, got to go to work.
Uh. "Santa Monica Mountains.
Wear sensible shoes."
[clicks tongue] Okay, thanks, Dad.
All right. Everybody out the door in five.
[♪ "Feels Like Sunshine" playing]
Does Rhys have a last name?
[chattering on radio]
[camera shutter clicks]
[♪ song ends]
Well, I see you sort of took my advice.
I didn't want to get into a shoe fight.
Victim's name is Curtis Behr,
ex-con, armed robbery, multiple assaults.
Hiker's spotted the truck and called
it in. Dawson's getting their statements.
Brake lines on the truck were cut.
Unis found pools of brake fluid
on the top of that hill.
Looks like that's where the truck
was parked when it happened.
[Karadec] Any idea
what the guy was doing out here?
Well, we have some thoughts.
Here's what we found in the truck.
-Rifle with a long-range scope.
-Mm-hmm.
"Subject left home at 6:00 a.m.
Mulholland to Backbone trail."
Okay, so he was tailing someone.
-Saved best for last.
-[Karadec] Got to be a few grand here.
-$3,750.
-That's a down payment.
Half of 7,500, a quarter of 15 grand.
Buy everything on layaway,
you get good at that math too.
Down payment would fit the note.
Hmm. "Balance upon completion.
And I'm watching you so I'll know."
It certainly feels
like Mr. Behr was hired to do a hit.
The question is, did he finish the job?
Are you saying there might
be another victim out here?
Right.
That is a lot of ground to cover
to hunt for a body that might not exist.
Well, just means we need
to narrow our search.
Seeing a lot of orange golf balls around
here and some of them are brand new.
They haven't had a chance
to be exposed to the elements yet.
-Like someone was hitting this morning.
-Mm-hmm.
Okay, so our golfer
might be Behr's subject,
but even so, these balls
could have been hit from anywhere.
Well, that's not true.
The path that a golf ball takes
and the distance are completely related.
When a golfer slices the ball
and it goes away from his body,
it has less energy
and travels a shorter distance
than if you were to hit it straight.
[crowd gasps]
If a golfer hooks the ball,
it goes across his body,
has more energy, and goes further.
[crowd gasps]
[grunts]
So, all we have to do is look at the
spread of where these golf balls landed,
and that way we can work backwards
and that helps us figure out
where they came from.
Which was right up there.
Also, our golfer was a lefty.
[grunts]
[Daphne, over radio] Perfect sight line.
Swing's a disaster.
[Karadec] Ha ha. I'll work on my air golf.
Meantime, get forensics
to come up here and process this area.
Pretty sure this is
where Behr's subject was standing.
[Daphne] Copy that, Tiger.
[Karadec] Next question.
Behr's subject leave dead or alive?
No blood, no dead body.
Yeah, these tire tracks look kinda normal.
No spin out,
doesn't look like anybody left in a hurry.
Yeah, like you would,
if you were being shot at by a sniper.
Looks like whoever Behr was watching,
they left alive.
What's this?
Fine, you were right about the shoes.
Just trying to help. [sighs]
[Morgan grunts]
Is this a golf club?
Uh-oh. Look at this. Lefty.
I never doubted you for a second, Gillory.
There's no branding on it.
Looks like it was 3D printed.
What do you make of that?
[Morgan] V might stand for version number.
You think this guy's printing golf clubs?
Well, if we're right,
Behr's subject is a left-handed inventor
who throws his golf
clubs when he gets pissed.
Whoever it is, we need to find them fast.
Right, 'cause the hit man's dead, but
this golfer still has a hit out on him.
Mm-hmm. And there's another reason.
Our golfer could be the one
who hit the hit man.
You keep spare boots laying around?
Will you stop obsessing
over my shoes, please?
Unis found a digital camera
on the hillside while we were mopping up.
Looks like he got thrown
from Behr's truck in the fall.
TID pulled these off his memory card.
Okay, this guy looks fun.
Any luck pulling prints
off the clubs you found?
The guy wears a glove when he golfs.
Anything older was smudged.
[Daphne] Well, we can run these
through facial recognition,
see if anything pops up.
We don't have to.
You don't recognize him?
[Narrator] A brush bar that loosens 30%
more dirt than the competition.
An ultrafine particulate filter and a bin
that needs to be emptied less often.
I designed the Newmeyer Sweep using
the same motto I apply to everything.
And so should you.
Do it best or don't do it at all.
"Do it best or don't do it at all"?
His name is Douglas Newmeyer.
He invented the Newmeyer Sweep.
I've used that vacuum,
I absolutely hate it.
That thing is way too powerful.
It should come with a warning label.
[scoffs] That label would be interesting.
Yeah, the Newmeyer Sweep was implicated
in over a dozen home fires last year,
traced back to faulty wiring.
Well, vacuum cleaners are full of lint,
so when they go up they go up fast.
Four severe injuries, four deaths.
Oh, my God.
That is terrible.
Newmeyer was accused
of knowing the vacuum could catch fire,
burying it and keeping it
in stores anyway.
How did I not hear about this?
Newmeyer's lawyers got gag orders imposed,
so as not to taint a potential jury.
For the most part,
it stayed out of the press.
A potential jury?
Newmeyer's facing criminal charges?
[Selena] He could, negligent homicide.
The investigation's still ongoing.
-FBI's running point.
-Good.
Meantime, Newmeyer's faced a bunch
of death threats,
mostly from victims' families.
I hear he's gotten
obsessed with his safety,
jumping between multiple homes
to keep his location secret.
And hiring pro security,
judging from the pics on Behr's camera.
[Oz] You think one
of those bodyguards did their job
a little too well and took out a hit man?
I think we can take Newmeyer
and his goons off the table.
If one of them killed Behr,
they wouldn't have left evidence
saying they were up there.
[Selena] Still, we need to
find Newmeyer ASAP,
regardless of who killed the hit man.
His life is still in danger.
Got it. Let's do it.
[Karadec] I'm surprised.
I was expecting you
to have a problem protecting this guy.
You can protect him if you want.
I wanna find him because he killed
four people and should rot in jail.
As long as we keep Newmeyer safe
and find whoever killed Behr.
Daphne and Oz,
go talk to the victims' families,
see if anybody pops out
as having hired a hit man.
-[Oz] Yeah.
-Morgan and Karadec--
Go find the genius inventor
with multiple houses
who does not want to be found.
[Selena] Morgan, a word.
Is this about Arthur?
Not much to report,
but I wanted to keep you updated.
Forensics finished processing the truck.
No prints besides his own.
No blood or signs of struggle.
So, maybe he wasn't hurt.
At least not there.
We're giving it 24 hours
to see if he turns up.
After that, it goes to Missing Persons.
-Ugh. [sighs]
-We're doing everything we can.
You good to stay focused on this case?
-Yeah.
-Go to work.
-Hey, everything all right?
-Yep.
Figured I'd reach out
to Newmeyer's company,
see if someone over there
can tell us where he's holed up.
Oh. You could do that, but it's in Berlin.
It's the middle of the night right now.
It's going to be a while
before we hear back.
And you've already thought
of a quicker way to find him, haven't you?
There's something I noticed
up on those trails.
All of the sets of footprints from
both bodyguards were this brand, Volkner.
I looked it up.
It's a German military supplier.
I mean, one bodyguard wearing
German army boots could be anything--
But both of them wearing them,
you're thinking they're former military.
Newmeyer's company is based in Germany.
Makes sense he'd hire
a security firm he already knew.
So, we find a firm
with offices in both LA and Berlin--
And you find Newmeyer.
[♪ "Paddling Out" playing]
Are you sure there's no Dr. Berman?
Ugh. I hate my PPO.
[elevator bell dings]
Two guys from the photos walking out now.
[Karadec] We're coming around
to pick you up.
♪ The west, the warm, the sunny south ♪
♪ I see it's full of ancients ♪
♪ For call the space between the crave ♪
♪ That sound of road to me too ♪
♪ There's someone here
Who laughs too hard at everything ♪
♪ You say isn't it hard? ♪
♪ Paddling out, paddling out ♪
[bodyguard 1] Who are you?
You cannot be here.
-[Karadec] LAPD.
-Where are they going?
We need a word with Mr. Newmeyer.
We believe he may be in danger.
You can't go in there right now.
He's about to have his--
Just give us a second.
Karadec, body!
-You stay here, stay here.
-Wait, wait, you don't understand!
Call an ambulance.
Whoa!
Who the hell are you?
-[person] Guard!
-[officer] FBI! Lower your weapons.
[Karadec] You need to put your guns down.
Put your guns down.
-Hey, hey, hey.
-[Karadec] Put it down!
-Lower your weapon!
-Okay, okay.
Hey, everybody, calm down! Calm down.
We're all calm, all right.
Look.
You care to explain
what the hell you're doing here?
You stepped in our op, you first.
We're investigating the death of a hit man
for hire who we believe
was targeting this man.
[sighs]
-What?
-He's not a hit man for hire.
He was one of ours, posing as one.
What?
Our murder victim, he's an undercover fed.
[Daphne] Behr wasn't a killer for hire.
He was FBI.
Fake hit man,
sounds like a bad action movie.
-You know, it gets results though.
-Are those results Jason Statham?
Someone wants someone dead, they think
they've hired a cold-blooded pro,
but in reality they've hired
an undercover fed.
All the stuff the agents were doing,
Behr's notes,
the photos faking that Newmeyer was dead,
all tricks the FBI uses
to build a case against the client.
Undercover wears a wire, shows the clients
the photos proving he's finished the job.
Client pays up and they get him
on tape saying the money is for murder.
So, no Jason Statham?
-Are you the group from LAPD?
-[Karadec] Yes, we are.
Special Agent Myra Taylor.
Case manager on the Newmeyer op.
I look forward to working together.
-Waiting for one more?
-[Karadec] No, we're all here.
Oh. There he is. Hey, Nicky.
Hey, sorry to hold you up.
[giggles]
Hi, Myra.
Agent Taylor and I worked a task force
back when I was undercover,
so when Major Crime stepped into their op,
she called me directly.
This way.
-You worked undercover?
-Can't tell you all my secrets.
We're over here.
Oh, good. Now we can get started.
You already know Ocko and Kessler.
-This is our boss--
-Wayne Vincent, ASAC LA CID.
[Morgan chuckles]
Something funny?
Uh, no. It's just a lot of initials.
They're very important.
-And you are…
-Morgan Gillory, A-B-C-D-E-F-G.
Ms. Gillory works with us as a consultant.
She has some issues
with this investigation.
To be clear, I don't have any issues
with finding the guy
who killed your agent.
I'm just thinking as long as we're here,
you know, maybe we could
take down the rich murderer too.
[Wayne] Well, that's not why we're here,
so let's keep our extra credit project
to ourselves.
Taylor.
The man you thought was a hit man,
Curtis Behr,
was really named Curtis Belanger,
decorated undercover
out of the Denver Field Office.
Two FBI stars, that's our Purple Heart,
one Medal of Valor
for risking his life saving other agents.
Left behind a wife and a little boy.
How could you not know
he was dead until we told you?
[Myra] His next check-in wasn't
until tomorrow.
You guys found him before we did.
None of us knew Belanger well.
Murder-for-hire guys are specialists.
He flew in just for this case.
He was living out of a motel
for the duration of the op.
When was his last check-in?
The client left payment and a note
saying he was watching Belanger.
It could be he saw him at your last
check-in and made Belanger for a fed.
[Wayne] Exactly our theory.
Then, fearing Belanger was onto him, the
guy killed Belanger to cover his tracks.
Wait, the guy?
You don't know who hired him?
Initial contact came across a hit man for
hire site that was actually an FBI front.
Client logged in using a fake ID. The
bureau subpoenaed the Internet provider,
but so far the company's fighting it.
Belanger had been steering the client
toward in-person meetings,
but so far they've insisted on dead drops
to exchange instructions and money.
Short of it is, we're still working
on ID'ing the person who hired Belanger.
First focus had been the people who have
issued death threats against Newmeyer.
Okay.
Detective Ozdil can stay here, you can go
over those death threats with him.
Daphne and I can go to Newmeyer's house
to see if we can dig around
and find out who might want him dead.
This wouldn't just be
about your extra credit project, would it?
I'm an incredible multitasker.
Detective Karadec and I will go
to Belanger's motel room.
If someone made him,
could be an indication of it there.
My whole life is in here,
my calendars, all my contacts, my emails.
-Anything I can do to help, say the word.
-Thanks.
[Morgan] You could confess…
that you knew your vacuums were dangerous.
That way you could be in prison
and that's a lot safer
than being out here, right?
Feels like a win-win to me.
You're the consultant.
I was told you have a singular mind.
You're not what I expected.
[chuckles] Yeah, I hear that a lot.
You, on the other hand,
are exactly what I expected.
That's Uppsala, Sweden.
I taught engineering
at Uppsala University.
It's known as the Oxford
of Northern Europe.
-Real Oxford didn't want you?
-Morgan…
I'll be upstairs, if you need me.
Gonna clean up the blood on the floor?
Esmeralda will get it.
She's in tomorrow.
So, the guy who got rich making vacuum
cleaners doesn't clean up after himself?
Great, real good, got it.
[Daphne] Well,
we don't have to like the guy.
We just need to figure out
who wants him dead.
Well, good luck with that.
Bet anybody who knows him wants him dead.
Haven't met Esmeralda,
but I guarantee she does.
-Where you going?
-To snoop.
You know where we're not gonna find
anything helpful?
In that laptop, because he gave it to us.
-Is the study this way?
-Mm-hmm. Yes, ma'am.
Motel manager said
Belanger kept to himself.
Didn't notice anyone suspicious
hanging around, guests either.
But that's not saying much.
This place gets rapid turnaround.
You looking for anything in particular?
Belanger's stash, someplace he'd hide
his casework, his notes, service weapon.
Okay, so we're looking for a place
that someone wouldn't find easily,
but that Belanger could get to quickly.
Exactly.
I've lived out of rooms like this.
If Belanger thought
somebody was onto him,
most likely the place
we'll find proof of it is in there.
[Karadec] Mm-hmm.
So, where did you work undercover?
Oakland mostly, lived up there
during my running from my family phase.
I didn't know you had one of those.
Hasn't everyone?
[Karadec clears throat]
Sir, I'm guessing you had a reason
for this little team up.
If you got a question to ask, just ask.
Remember our chat recently
about keeping me in the loop?
How can I forget?
Well, maybe you can help me with that.
With what?
Twenty million dollar painting disappears,
right at the same time
as your partner goes AWOL for a few hours.
I contacted
that art consultant afterwards,
a guy Morgan seemed unusually chummy with.
And who, up until that point, would stop
at nothing to recover that painting.
Then suddenly considers the case closed.
I don't know.
You tell me, detective,
what am I supposed to think?
Everything I know is contained
in my report, sir.
Beyond that,
you can think whatever you want to think.
[sighs] If you're covering for her,
be very careful.
If I'm covering for my partner, sir,
it would seem to me that either you
should approve or you're a hypocrite.
Found it.
[grunting]
Ah. Nice.
-Hey, buddy.
-You know what I'm thinking?
Uh, almost never, but that's part
of what I love about you.
You and Mom deserve a night off.
When was the last time you went
to the movies or tried a new restaurant?
Wow, that's really thoughtful, Elliot.
Thanks, but we get our breaks in.
You know, I hang with you guys
while Mom does her thing and vice versa.
No, I mean together.
Why would we hang together?
Come sit down. I think you should do
something nice for her.
Well, I got good news for you.
I'm currently in the middle
of fixing her sink.
-Is romance dead?
-I'm sorry, what are we talking about?
-Do you not see what's going on here?
-I guess I don't.
The gauntlet's been thrown. I can't help
you if you're not even gonna try.
-Any progress?
-[Morgan] Yeah, lots.
First, I went through all the files
in your study, mostly boring, but I did…
I did find out one thing.
You know that charitable foundation
that all these awards came from?
He owns that.
And he just moves money
from one of his bank accounts
into another one of his bank accounts
and he gives himself awards for it.
[chuckles mockingly]
Anyway, ever since then
I've just been looking through these files
that the FBI gave us about a faulty
vacuum cleaner that kills people.
I meant in identifying
who hired a hit man to kill me.
Yeah, don't you think
those two are connected?
You know what's crazy?
The only reason you're not in prison
is because of a lucky break.
You gotta check this out.
The feds had a letter to Newmeyer
from his own factory warning him
that the wiring wasn't safe.
You knew your vacuum was a time bomb.
These matters are highly technical.
It's far more complicated than you think.
Is it?
You cut corners to save money,
wires were installed improperly.
The vacuum vibrates, wires shake loose…
vacuum goes up in flames.
Not complicated.
All manufacturing demands
that we balance costs.
And no product is 100% safe.
If you think otherwise, you're naive.
Yeah, it's so childish of me to think
that a home appliance
shouldn't kill people.
[sighs]
[scoffs]
I've seen your type before.
And I've seen yours.
All that intellect, wasted.
And this… this chaos act that you put on
that you pretend is a choice,
it's all a cover to hide that you can't
apply yourself even if you wanted to
because you lack self-discipline.
It's the real reason
you've accomplished nothing.
And you never will.
Well, no one's died because of me.
That's an accomplishment, I guess.
[phone buzzes]
Excuse me.
-Hi, everything okay?
-[Ludo] Everyone's fine,
-health and safety wise.
-But?
But we're having some big feelings
over here.
Elliot is upset about the flowers.
The flowers Rhys sent me? Why?
He doesn't even know Rhys.
It's not about who did send them.
It's about who didn't.
He's upset that they didn't come from me.
I think the kid is still holding out hope
that his mom and dad
are going to get back together.
[sighs] He said that?
In as many words.
Well, what'd you say?
I didn't say anything. I wanted to talk
to you first and see what you told him.
I mean, I told them both everything
but that was a long time
ago back when we split up.
Right.
[sighs] Okay, why don't you wait till I
get home and then we can sit him down.
-We'll figure out what's going on.
-No, no, no. It's okay.
We're in this together. I can talk to him.
Okay, I know you'll know what to say.
-I'll let you know how it goes.
-Call me if you need me.
Hey, genius,
do you have any recent surgical scars?
No. Why?
'Cause she does. And she left
her scar cream in your bathroom.
Yeah, I noticed earlier that you had
your hand around her waist.
It's a little too intimate but it wouldn't
surprise me if you were the handsy type.
But I also noticed
that she's got a UV protective scarf
and I don't think
she's worried about tan lines.
I think she's trying
to keep this scar from darkening.
-You're thinking thyroid surgery?
-I don't know, tough to say.
But what I'm more interested in is the
fact that she's wearing a wedding ring.
Did you bother telling the people
who are trying to save your life
that you're having an affair
with a married woman?
-Why not?
-I didn't think it was relevant.
Her husband is a… [scoffs]…
a feeble man. Incapable of action.
The kind of guy who hires a hit man
to do his dirty work.
-I'm impressed.
-Oh, my God, you moron.
Hey, what's this woman's name
and who's her husband?
[sighs]
Husband's name is Joel Dorskind, 48,
Beverly Hills, CPA.
As far as we can tell, the guy
never stepped out of line in his life,
not even a speeding ticket. Literally.
Which explains why Newmeyer
never even considered him an option.
Well, that and Newmeyer's arrogance.
If this Dorskind's such a Boy Scout,
why do we think he's our guy?
Our detectives pulled surveillance video
from an office supply store
five blocks from his firm.
Same exact envelope
the client used to pay Belanger.
Off that,
we got the Internet provider to play ball
and help us identify the person
who logged on to your website.
Dorskind hired Belanger. He's our guy.
Where's Dorskind now?
At his office. Detective Forrester
is getting in front of a judge now.
We should have a signed warrant in ten.
Go get him.
[Myra] FBI! Everyone,
hands where we can see them.
LAPD, we have a warrant
for the arrest of Joel Dorskind.
Where's Joel Dorskind?
[door opens]
Dorskind, freeze!
-[Daphne exclaims]
-[grunts, groans]
Joel Dorskind.
You have the right to remain silent.
Get up.
[groans]
Wait, wait, I didn't do anything
wrong yet. I…I could still call it off.
-Wait, what?
-What can you call off?
The hit man, he hasn't killed anybody yet.
It's not too late.
Karadec. In here.
Dorskind was in here
putting together his next payment.
He doesn't know his hit man's dead.
So we have the guy who hired Belanger?
But he's not the one who killed him.
[Nick] Dorskind's not our guy.
[Wayne] Or you just don't see it.
Dorskind leaves a down payment
at his dead drop, goes on the website,
leaves instructions where to find it,
and watches whoever comes to pick it up.
You think that guy wanted
to meet his killer?
-Nicky.
-Myra, not now.
Dorskind made Belanger for a fed.
His own notes said he was tailing him.
And now that we've seen him,
I'd say that was posturing.
Look, for what you're saying to work,
Dorskind would have to have killed
an FBI agent
and kept 11 grand in cash
lying around to throw on his desk
so he could pretend he didn't know
anything if he got caught?
Makes sense to me.
It's ridiculous. And now that
we've seen him, I'd say that was…
You know, at some point you could
remind him he has his own office.
What, and miss the show? [scoffs]
I take it you've accepted
that Dorskind's not the killer.
I'm going over the case from square one.
I'm looking for a new angle.
Belanger had a whole jacket
before moving into murder-for-hire.
He was embedded with drug traffickers,
gun runners,
maybe some guy from an old case
decided to take him out.
What did the carpet look like
in Dorskind's office?
Why do you ask?
Well, 'cause there's
some orange fibers on the envelope
that we found in Belanger's truck.
But the fibers aren't on this
new envelope, just the one from the truck.
The orange carpet was
in Belanger's motel room.
-Are you sure?
-Yeah. Uh…
His hiding place was
underneath the wardrobe against the floor.
Those fibers got on everything. What?
If he'd already stashed
the money in his motel room,
how did it end up back in his truck?
Maybe he brought it along to vouch for it.
No, his next check-in was tomorrow.
He wouldn't have left
that much cash sitting in his truck.
Well, if he didn't leave it in there,
that means someone else took it
from the room and planted it in the truck.
Because they wanted us
to focus on the murder-for-hire case
and this note from Dorskind,
saying he was watching him.
Dorskind didn't write that.
Whoever planted the money must have.
That's not good. That means whoever
killed Belanger knew a lot of things.
They knew about the undercover op
in the first place.
They knew where to find him
while he was working it.
[Oz] And they knew where he'd hide
that envelope in his room.
-Which means?
-[Selena] Which means our killer…
could be one of the FBI agents
working the case.
You two, pull everything you have
on the feds working the op.
Personnel files, case histories.
Are you in touch with your ex-partner?
Ronnie's in D.C. right now,
but I'll tell him you're gonna reach out.
-All right.
-Any of those agents had reason
to kill Belanger,
we need to find out who.
And everyone keep it quiet.
[knocks on door]
Can I come in?
Your mom getting flowers from another guy
kinda threw you for a loop, huh?
You two aren't getting back together,
are you?
It's probably not in the cards. No.
Why not? You still like each other.
We do. We do.
We like each other very much.
And we still make a great team.
All of us do.
This whole family makes a great team,
and that is never gonna change.
But your mother and I realized
we didn't make a great couple.
And nobody did anything wrong.
We just move at very different speeds.
And trying to be people
we weren't. That… [sighs]
It wasn't good for either of us.
And we realized we work better as friends.
I get that.
You do?
I want you guys to be happy.
And I can handle it.
Oh. Okay, great. [chuckles softly]
You know, that's really mature.
-I try.
-[chuckles]
[sighs]
-Do you need a hug?
-I need one so bad.
Come here.
-I love you, buddy.
-I love you.
So, who did the breaking up, you or mom?
How's it going?
Honestly, it feels gross
investigating fellow officers.
Yeah, I get that.
Kinda hoping this angle doesn't pan out.
Well, get ready to be disappointed.
I think I just figured it out.
[Morgan] What are you
doing up so early, buddy?
[Elliot] Check it out.
Look at this,
a working faucet just like normal people.
-Dad and I fixed it together.
-Well, you're hired.
[chuckles] And he showed me
what was wrong.
Whoever lived here before us connected two
different types of metal and it corroded.
So, you got a science lesson
crammed in there too, huh?
-Yeah, dad's a smart guy.
-[chuckles]
I hear you guys had a talk
about him and me.
You okay?
Yeah. I think I just needed to hear it.
Yeah, that makes sense.
And if something else pops up,
which it will, we'll talk about that too.
Actually, there's something else
I wanted to talk to you about.
We're back to plumbing, aren't we?
-Yeah.
-[chuckles]
Can I show you another thing
dad taught me?
-Absolutely.
-Okay.
So, fluid dynamics are really interesting.
It's a whole subfield of physics.
Mmm.
Would it be weird
if I wanted to be a plumber?
Absolutely not.
You keep that big heart of yours,
and you can be whatever you wanna be.
'Kay.
[chuckles]
Mr. Newmeyer.
Detective Karadec, LAPD.
You already know Ms. Gillory.
What's up, Doug?
I heard you arrested
Gabrielle Dorskind's husband,
and he's the one who tried
to have me killed.
That is true. We're still connecting
some of the dots though.
Just wanted to walk you through it.
Then Miss Gillory was right.
She is unique.
Well, we're keeping her around.
Are you… You afraid of that vacuum?
I thought you said it was safe.
Don't worry, Mr. Newmeyer,
no one's gonna send you to prison
for giving a vacuum cleaner a dirty look.
[laughs] Oh, that's silly.
We couldn't do that if we wanted to.
That's not even a thing.
No, we're gonna send you
to prison for something else.
-You lied to me.
-Yeah.
Police are allowed to do that.
You can check.
Sit somewhere you can see the big screen,
we wouldn't want you to strain your neck.
Now, we think you were told about these.
Agent Belanger's surveillance shots of
you from when he was posing as a hit man.
But you must not have known
all of the times
that Belanger was watching you,
otherwise he wouldn't have gotten this.
[Karadec] These were on the memory card
we found in Belanger's motel room.
To be more accurate, our techs restored
them from the deleted photos on the card.
I guess you didn't know
Belanger's every move either.
Maybe 'cause you're such a bad boss,
your team didn't bother
keeping you in the loop.
You were in Newmeyer's pocket.
He wanted someone on the inside to keep
tabs on the investigation against him.
And when he needed you to,
you stole evidence
to make sure the case would fall apart.
These photos came out or Belanger talked,
you were looking at serious jail time.
I never met Agent Belanger,
but I wouldn't be here
if it weren't for guys like him.
And it's easy to imagine
when he stumbled onto you two meeting.
He did you the courtesy
of giving you a chance to explain.
And how did you repay that favor?
Right. You broke into his motel room.
And you deleted all of the photos
of yourself off his memory card.
And then you killed him.
You know, the funny thing is we never
would've looked for deleted photos
until Morgan noticed an old assignment
in your personnel file.
[Morgan] Uppsala, Sweden.
Ugh, so beautiful.
You know, I hear the school there
is the Oxford of Northern Europe.
You were stationed there about ten years
ago tracking international hackers.
Yeah, Newmeyer was there at the same time.
That's how you two met.
You've got this all wrong.
[scoffs] I had no idea
Agent Vincent killed a man.
Yeah. I-I don't think that you're going
to be able to convince the jury of that.
Yeah, we found a series
of bank transfers between you.
Given the timing
of the most recent payment
and the fact that it's a lot higher
than all the others,
it's pretty clear
you were in on the decision.
You're both under arrest
for the murder of Agent Curtis Belanger.
-[handcuffs clicking]
-What a shame.
All that intellect, wasted.
[♪ "Sidelines" playing]
[scoffs]
♪ I'm not afraid ♪
♪ Of anything at all ♪
♪ Not dying in a fire… ♪
-Hey.
You all right?
I heard you got into it
with Newmeyer yesterday.
-That surprise you?
-Hmm.
He just reminded me of someone.
[clears throat]
Your dad?
You mentioned he was a piece of work, so…
Still is.
Superior, judgmental,
thinks being smart is a baseball bat
you beat people over the head with.
Tells his kid he's disappointed
that she's wasting her gifts
because she doesn't want to be like him.
Morgan, you know that's ridiculous, right?
Yeah, yeah. I guess I do, intellectually.
Still doesn't feel good.
[Karadec exhales sharply]
Do you have any idea
how valuable you are to us?
Morgan, do you understand how many people
you have helped since you've been here?
That is the exact opposite
of wasting your gifts.
I know a couple of people
who'd disagree with you.
Um… [inhales deeply]
Can I give you a piece of advice?
You need proof the world's a better place
because you're in it?
Go home, Morgan.
♪ Watching the world from the sidelines ♪
I'll see you tomorrow.
♪ Had nothing to prove ♪
♪ 'Til you came into my life ♪
♪ Gave me something to lose ♪